PACKAGING.md, before:

# Star Scoper OCR - Packaging & Release Guide

This document explains how to package and release Star Scoper OCR using GitHub Actions.

## GitHub Actions Workflow

The repository is set up with a GitHub Actions workflow that automatically builds and packages the application when:

1. You push to the `main` branch (builds but doesn't create a release)
2. You push a tag starting with `v` (builds and creates a draft release)

### Workflow Details

The workflow defined in `.github/workflows/build.yml` performs the following steps:

1. Builds the application for Windows and macOS
2. Packages the application using Electron Builder
3. Uploads the packaged artifacts
4. Creates a draft release when you push a tag

## How to Create a Release

To create a new release of Star Scoper OCR:

1. Update the version in `package.json`
2. Commit your changes
   ```bash
   git commit -am "Bump version to x.y.z"
   ```
3. Tag the commit
   ```bash
   git tag vx.y.z
   ```
4. Push commits and tags
   ```bash
   git push && git push --tags
   ```
5. Wait for the GitHub Actions workflow to complete
6. Go to the "Releases" section on your GitHub repository
7. Find the draft release, review it, and publish it

### Helper Script

You can use the included dev helper script to assist with the release process:

```bash
# Run pre-flight checks before building
node scripts/dev-helper.js check

# Clean build artifacts
node scripts/dev-helper.js clean

# Prepare for release
node scripts/dev-helper.js prepare-release
```

## Version Numbers

Version numbers should follow semantic versioning:

- MAJOR version when you make incompatible API changes
- MINOR version when you add functionality in a backwards compatible manner
- PATCH version when you make backwards compatible bug fixes

Example: 1.0.0, 1.0.1, 1.1.0, 2.0.0

## App Icons

The application requires icons in the following formats:

- Windows: `build/icon.ico` (256x256 pixels)
- macOS: `build/icon.icns` (1024x1024 pixels)
- Linux: `build/icon.png` (1024x1024 pixels)

These icon files are included in the repository. If you want to change the app icon, replace these files with your own versions while keeping the same filenames.

Commit message:

Improve icon generation and update documentation
Enhanced the icon generation script to use electron-icon-builder for creating multi-size icons for all platforms. Updated PACKAGING.md with clearer instructions on icon requirements and generation. Replaced the Windows .ico file with a new version containing multiple sizes and ensured main.js uses consistent icon path formatting.

PACKAGING.md, after:

# Star Scoper OCR - Packaging & Release Guide

This document explains how to package and release Star Scoper OCR using GitHub Actions.

## GitHub Actions Workflow

The repository is set up with a GitHub Actions workflow that automatically builds and packages the application when:

1. You push to the `main` branch (builds but doesn't create a release)
2. You push a tag starting with `v` (builds and creates a draft release)

### Workflow Details

The workflow defined in `.github/workflows/build.yml` performs the following steps:

1. Builds the application for Windows and macOS
2. Packages the application using Electron Builder
3. Uploads the packaged artifacts
4. Creates a draft release when you push a tag

## How to Create a Release

To create a new release of Star Scoper OCR:

1. Update the version in `package.json`
2. Commit your changes
   ```bash
   git commit -am "Bump version to x.y.z"
   ```
3. Tag the commit
   ```bash
   git tag vx.y.z
   ```
4. Push commits and tags
   ```bash
   git push && git push --tags
   ```
5. Wait for the GitHub Actions workflow to complete
6. Go to the "Releases" section on your GitHub repository
7. Find the draft release, review it, and publish it

### Helper Script

You can use the included dev helper script to assist with the release process:

```bash
# Run pre-flight checks before building
node scripts/dev-helper.js check

# Clean build artifacts
node scripts/dev-helper.js clean

# Prepare for release
node scripts/dev-helper.js prepare-release
```

## Version Numbers

Version numbers should follow semantic versioning:

- MAJOR version when you make incompatible API changes
- MINOR version when you add functionality in a backwards compatible manner
- PATCH version when you make backwards compatible bug fixes

Example: 1.0.0, 1.0.1, 1.1.0, 2.0.0

## App Icons

The application requires icons in the following formats:

- Windows: `build/icon.ico` (containing multiple sizes: 16x16 to 256x256 pixels)
- macOS: `build/icon.icns` (containing multiple sizes: 16x16 to 1024x1024 pixels)
- Linux: `build/icon.png` (1024x1024 pixels)

These icon files are included in the repository. If you want to change the app icon, you can:

1. Replace `build/icon.png` with your own 1024x1024 PNG image
2. Run the icon generation script: `node scripts/generate-icons.js`
3. The script will create all necessary icon formats and sizes in the `build/icons` directory and copy them to the appropriate locations

This ensures that all platforms have properly sized icons for different display contexts (taskbar, title bar, file explorer, etc.).
